# Why Should I Learn Go?

## Advantages of Go

### 1. Code runs fast

Software Translation
* Machine language: CPU instructions represented in binary
* Assembly language: CPU instructions with mnemonics. It is almost one to one mapping to machine language but eaiser to read.
* High-level language: Commonly used languages

All high-level language needs to be translated to the machine language.
* Compilation: Translate instructions once before running the code.
* Interpretation: Translate instructions while code is executed.

Efficiency vs. Ease-of-Use
* Compiled code is faster.
* Interpreters make coding easier by managing memory automatically and inferring variable types.
* Go is a good comprise because it is compiled language but has features of garbage collection.

### 2. Garbage collection
* Automatic memory management
    * Where should memory be allocated?
    * When can memory be deallocated?
* Manual memory management difficult
    * Deallocate too early -> false memory access
    * Deallocate too late -> wasted memory

### 3. Simpler objects

Go is *weakly object-oriented*, which means it implements objects but with fewer features.

Object-oriented Programming
* Organize your code through *encapsulation*.
* Group together data and functions which are related.
* User-defined type which is specific to an application.

Objects in Go
* Go does not use the term class.
* Go uses structs with associated methods.
* Simplified implementation of classes (No inheritance, constructor, generics)
* Easier to code and run unless you want those features

### 4. Concurrency is efficient

Performance limits of computers
* Moor's Law used to help performance
    * Number of transistors doubles every 18 months
* More transistors used to lead to higher clock frequencies
* Power/temperature constraints limit clock frequencies now

Parallelism
* Number of cores still increases over time
* Multiple tasks may be performed at the same time on different cores
* Difficulties with parallelism
    * When do tasks start/stop?
    * What if one task needs data from another task?
    * Do tasks conflict in memory?

Concurrent programming
* *Concurrency* is the management of multiple tasks at the same time
* Key requirement for large systems
* Concurrent programming enables parallelism
    * Management of task execution
    * Communication between tasks
    * Synchronization between tasks

Concurrency in Go
* Go includes concurrency primitives
* *Goroutines* present concurrent tasks
* *Channels* are used to communicate between tasks
* *Select* enables task synchronization
* Concurrency primitives are efficient and easy to use